# fosetyl-Al production | sodium nitrate | Cutoff, U

**UUID:** `00a1ac51-0f36-377e-987e-23098b36af0b`

**Reference Flow:** sodium nitrate
**Amount:** 1.0

**Classification:** 2021:Manufacture of pesticides and other agrochemical products

**Version:** 03.11.000

## Description

This dataset represents the production of fosetyl-Al (1 kg of active ingredient). Raw materials are modelled with a stoichiometric calculation. Energy consumption is modelled with data from a similar process. The emissions are estimated. Infrastructure is included with a default value.
From reception of precursors (aluminium hydroxide, ethanol, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric acid, phosphorous chloride, sodium hydroxide, and water decarbonised) at the factory gate.

This activity end...

## Time Coverage

Reference Year: 2000 | Valid Until: 2024

## Geography

**Location:** RoW
The inventory is modelled for Europe.

## Technology

Fosetyl-Al is a pesticide produced in four steps from phosphorus trichloride, each reaction has an estimated efficiancy of 95%:;PCl3 + 2 C2H6O + H2O → C4H11O3P + 3 HCl ;C4H11O3P + H3PO3 → 2 C2H7O3P ;C2H7O3P + C2H5ONa → C2H6O3PNa + C2H6O ;3 C2H6O3PNa + Al(NO3)3 → C6H18AlO9P3 + 3 NaNO3 ;Precursor used for the fosetyl-Al production is aluminium nitrate (Al(NO3)3). Aluminium nitrate (Al(NO3)3) is produced from aluminium hydroxide and nitric acid: ;Al(OH)3 + 3 HNO3 → Al(NO3)3 + 3 H2O;The formed aluminium nitrate is a valuable by-product. The formed HCl is neutralised and disposed.

## Methodology

**Data Set Type:** Unit process, single operation
**LCI Method:** Other

## Data Sources

**Sampling:** Literature data and stoichiometric calculation. This inventory is partially based on a generic model of the production of chemicals. The data generated by this model have been improved with compound-specific data when available.

## Main Inputs

- heat, district or industrial, natural gas: 0.317
- electricity, medium voltage: 0.2621
- heat, district or industrial, other than natural gas: 0.1769
- phosphorus trichloride: 0.06196
- sodium ethoxide: 0.05551
- nitric acid, without water, in 50% solution state: 0.0516
- sodium hydroxide, without water, in 50% solution state: 0.05101
- phosphoric acid, industrial grade, without water, in 85% solution state: 0.04228
- aluminium hydroxide: 0.01196
- water, deionised: 0.008142

## Main Outputs

- Chloride: 0.04597
- Sodium I: 0.03021
- Carbon dioxide, fossil: 0.01884
- Water: 0.005155

